.\" $Id: eft_wuauth.5,v 1.1 1999/06/30 16:51:02 he Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1988 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that: (1) source distributions retain this entire copyright notice and
.\" comment, and (2) distributions including binaries display the following
.\" acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software developed by the
.\" University of California, Berkeley and its contributors'' in the
.\" documentation or other materials provided with the distribution and in
.\" all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software.
.\" Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may
.\" be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\" specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\"	ORIGINAL: ftpd.8	6.8 (Berkeley) 6/24/90
.\"
.\"	@(#)$Original-Id: ftpd.8,v 1.5 1997/01/14 22:45:27 sob Exp sob $
.\"
.TH EFT_WUAUTH 5 "Jan 10, 1997"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
eft_wuauth \- authentication for eftp4linux Eurofile server based on wuftpd.
.SH DESCRIPTION
If the eftp4linux Eurofile server
.I eftd
is compiled with the CONFIG_EFTD_WUAUTH configuration option,
it uses user authentication code derived from
.I wuftpd,
the Washington University ftp daemon.
.PP
In that case
.I eftd
authenticates users according to four rules. 
.IP 1)
The user name must be in the password data base,
.IR /etc/passwd ,
or whatever is appropriate for the operating system,
and the password must not be null.  In this case a password
must be provided by the client before any file operations
may be performed.
.IP 2)
The user name must not appear in the file
.IR /etc/isdn/eftusers .
.IP 3)
The user must have a standard shell returned by 
.IR getusershell (3).
If login failed for certain users, maybe that's because their login
shell is not listed in /etc/shells.
.IP 4)
If the user name is ``anonymous'' or ``ftp'', an
anonymous ftp account must be present in the password
file (user ``ftp'').  In this case the user is allowed
to log in by specifying any password (by convention this
is given as the client host's name).
.PP
In the last case, 
.I eftd
takes special measures to restrict the client's access privileges.
The server performs a 
.IR chroot (2)
command to the home directory of the ``ftp'' user.
In order that system security is not breached, it is recommended
that the ``ftp'' subtree be constructed with care;  the following
rules are recommended.
.IP ~ftp)
Make the home directory owned by super-user and unwritable by anyone.
.IP ~ftp/bin)
Make this directory owned by the super-user and unwritable by
anyone.  This contains auxilary programs that might be forked by
.IR eftd(8) 
or
.IR ftpd(8).
These programs should have mode 111.
.IR eftd(8) 
currently does not need any auxilary programs. Thus, you only need to
put files here if you also want to provide anonymous ftp service.
.IP ~ftp/etc)
Make this directory owned by the super-user and unwritable by
anyone.  The files
.IR passwd (5)
and
.IR group (5)
must be present for eftd 
to be able to produce owner names rather than numbers in file headers
and extended format directory (T-DIR primitive) listings. Depending
on the operating system, there may be other required files. Check your
manual page for the 
.IR getpwent (3)
library routine.
The password field in
.I passwd
is not used, and should not contain real encrypted passwords.
These files should be mode 444 and owned by the super-user.
Don't use the system's /etc/passwd file as the password file or
the system's /etc/group file as the group file in the ~ftp/etc directory.
.IP ~ftp/pub)
Create a subdirectory in ~ftp/pub
with the appropriate mode (777 or 733) if you want to allow normal
users to upload files.

.PP
The Eurofile file server also allows for finer grained access control
by means of the files /etc/isdn/eftaccess and /etc/isdn/efthosts.

.SH "COPYING"
The main part of eftp4linux is licensed under the LGPL. However,
eft servers using the wuauth authentication libray also contain code
copyrighted by the University of California, Berkeley,
by the Washington University in Saint Louis, and their contributors.
That code is subject to a BSD style licences with advertisment clause:

Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
All rights reserved.

This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
Chris Torek.
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
provided that: (1) source distributions retain this entire
copyright notice and comment, and (2) distributions including binaries
display the following acknowledgement:  ``This product includes software
developed by the University of California, Berkeley and its contributors''
in the documentation or other materials provided with the distribution
and in all advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
software. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  Washington University in Saint Louis
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met: 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
software must display the following acknowledgement: This product
includes software developed by the Washington University in Saint
Louis and its contributors.
4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY AND CONTRIBUTORS
``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL WASHINGTON
UNIVERSITY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR eftd(1) ,
.BR shells(5) ,
.BR getusershell(3) ,
.BR eftaccess(5) ,
.BR efthosts(5) ,
.BR eft_xferlog(5) ,
.BR umask(2)
.SH BUGS
The anonymous account is inherently dangerous and should be
avoided when possible.

The eftaccess amd efthosts files are currently not yet working as documented.
