.\" $Id: vboxbeep.man,v 1.2 2000/09/15 09:10:10 paul Exp $
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2000/09/15 09:10:10 $
.TH vboxbeep 1  "@MANDATE@" "ISDN 4 Linux @I4LVERSION@" "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
vboxbeep \- isdn voice box (beeper)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vboxbeep
.I "[OPTION] [OPTION] [...]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
vboxbeep is a daemon, that watches several message directories. If new
messages are found it will beep. Vboxbeep does not use vboxd, it can
only watch local directories.

Vboxbeep is also used to stop this annoying beep.
.SH OPTIONS
Without any options, vboxbeep will signal an already running vboxbeep to
stop its beep. Only root can start it as daemon.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-sound HOURS
Hours to play beep signal. Use 24 hour format, like 0-23. Multiple hours
can be given separated by commas, a "*" is used for always, "-" for
never.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-messagebox DIR
Message directory to scan. You can use this option several times.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-pause SECS
Time to wait between every check. Default is 5 seconds.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-kill
Kill a running vboxbeep. This option can only be used by root.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.SH NOTE
vboxbeep will only work if it is installed suid root. This may be a
security hole, so many distributions do not install it suid root, and
thus it's useless. If you want to enable vboxbeep, please read the
distribution-specific documentation how to do that (e.g. with debian
gnu/linux read /usr/doc/isdnutils/README.debian).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Andreas Jellinghaus <aj@dungeon.inka.de>,
for Debian GNU/Linux and isdn4linux.
