.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2000/09/01 12:35:44 $
.TH ISDNRATE 1 "@MANDATE@" -lt-
.SH NAME
isdnrate \- Print telefon rates and various info from rate\-files(5).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "isdnrate \-b" best " \-d" day " \-f" from " \-h" hour " \-l" len
.B \-o
.BI \-p provs
.B \-s
.BI "\-t" takt " \-v" verbose " \-x" exclude
.BI " \-C \-D" det " -\G" data " \-H \-L \-N \-O" socketfile " \-P" piddir
.BI " \-S" sort " \-T \-U \-V \-X" explain
.BI -Z
.B NUMBER ...
.P
All options are optional.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B isdnrate
program prints various information from rate\-files(5). It's main purpose
is the calculation of telefon rates from your location to an arbitrary
destination at a certain time and of a certain length for all the providers in a rate\-file.
.P
.SS
.B NUMBER
.P
A telefon number may be
.IP
.B 1234
a local area number
.IP
.B 01234
a different area in your country
.IP
.B +12345
a foreign country
.IP
.B China
text for a foreign country
.IP
.B Paris
a town
.IP
.B US
a code as defined in
.IR country.dat .
.IP
.B Internet
a Service name (if option
.B -s
is also given).
.P
Note that currently only city names in AT, DE, NL are supported plus some international capitals.
.br
Note also, spaces in country- or service names may be given as underscores.
.SS
.B OPTIONS
.P
.BI \-b best
Print only \fIbest\fP providers. Default is all.
.P
.BI \-d day
Calc rates for \fIday\fP. \fIday\fP can be one of
.IP
.I dd
day of current month
.br
.I dd.mm
day month
.br
.IR dd.mm.yy [ yy ]
day, month, year
.br
.I W
Weekday
.br
.I N
Weekday - night
.br
.I E
Weekend
.P
Default is now.
.P
.BI \-f from
Callers location. Default ist from
.IR isdn.conf .
.P
.BI \-h hour
Time
.IR hh [ :mm [ :ss ]]
of call. Default is now.
.P
.BI \-l len
Length of call in second. Default value is 153 secs.
.P
.B \-o
Show only booked providers. These are providers, which are listed in
.IR rate.conf .
.P
.IR "\fB\-p\fP provider" [ ,provider... ]
Print only info for given \fIprovider\fP(s).
.I provider
is the provider number, without the leading VBN, or
.I provider_variant
if there are more variations, or
.I B
for business providers.
.P
.B \-s
Consider
.B NUMBER
as the name of a service and print all numbers / providers, which supply
this service.
.P
.BI \-t takt
Print only providers, which have calculation impulses smaller or equal to \fItakt\fP.
Default is 9999.
.P
.BI \-v verbose
Set \fIverbose\fP level.
.P
.IR "\fB\-x\fP provider" [ ,provider... ]
Exclude these \fIprovider\fP(s).
.P
.SS
.B DISPLAY AND RUN OPTIONS
.P
.B \-C
Connect to a running isdnrate daemon. This avoids long startup times.
.P
.B \-D
Start as a daemon, waiting for connections from a client. The socket
.I /tmp/isdnrate
is created, which clients can connect to.
.P
.B \-D2
Start as a daemon and go background.
.P
.B \-CD3
Stop a running daemon.
.P
.BI \-G n
Print raw data for connection. \fIn\fP may be currently 97,98,99.
.P
.B \-H
Print a header.
.P
.B \-L
Print a semicolon separated list of
.IP
vbn ; providername ; zone ; day ; time ; currency ; charge ; basicprice ; price ;
duration ; charge/min ; takt ; minimum price
.P
.B \-N
Show info about following numbers. If no provider is given, the preselected
provider is used.
.P
.BI \-O socketfile
Write socket to given filename on start of daemon. Default is
.IR tmp/isdnrate .
.P
.BI \-P piddir
Write own PID to
.I piddir/isdnrate.pid
on start of daemon.
.P
.BI \-S sort
Sort output by \fIsort\fP, which may be
.IP
.B v
vbn or
.B n
provider name. Default is by charge.
.P
.B \-T
Print a table of charges for daytimes weekday/weekend.
.P
.B \-V
Print version info and exit.
.P
.BI \-X explain
Print additional information for charge or from rate-file.
.I explain
may be
.IP
.B 1
(zone)
.br
.B 2
(charge/min, zone, day, time)
.br
.B 50
International areas
.br
.B 51
National zones
.br
.B 52
Services
.br
.B COMMENT
Print C:COMMENT: info from rate files.
.P
If
.I \-s
is given, the number of the service is also listed with
.I \-X1
or
.IR \-X2 .
.P
.B \-Z
Print info for LCR
.br
e.g. isdnrate -p1 -ZX 19430
.br
shows the rate for provider 1 and the cheapest rate to this service.
.P
Note: Various output options may not be used together. If you gave conflicting
options you'll see a warning.
.br
Note also: Sort by name or providernumber and
.BI -b best
will bring you the first
.I best
providers in sorting order, not the cheapest.
.br
And finally: Some options like
.IR \-X50 ", " \-X51 ", " \-X52 ", " \-D ", " \-V
don't require a telefon
.IR NUMBER .
.SH FILES
.IR rate-CC.dat ,
.IR holiday-CC.dat ,
.IR dest.gdbm ,
.IR zone-CC-PPP.gdbm ,
.IR isdn.conf ,
.I telrate.cgi
and more.
.br
Note: The extension of zone- and dest data files depends on configuration.
Recently
.I .cdb
is used.
.SH EXAMPLES
.I isdnrate -D2
.br
Start the isdnrate daemon.
.P
.I isdnrate -D2 -P /var/run -O /tmp/isdnr_socket
.br
Start the isdnrate daemon, write
.I isdnrate.pid
to /var/run and create thew given socket.
.P
.I isdnrate -CH -b5 -f01 -l120 Attersee
.br
Connect to running daemon, print a header and the best 5 rates from Vienna
.RI ( 01 )
to destination
.I Attersee
for a connection length of 2 Minutes.

.P
.I isdnrate -CX -p1_2,24 +1
.br
Show rates and zones for destination USA for providers
.IR "1_2 " and " 24" .
.P
.I isdnrate -CX -H -dW -b5 US CA
.br
Show a header, rates and zones for destinations USA and Canada for best 5
providers during workday.
.P
.I isdnrate -CHoX US
.br
Show header, rate and zone for destination USA for booked providers only.
.P
.I isdnrate -CsX -l60 Internet
.br
Show rates and numbers for service
.I Internet
for a 1 minutes call.
.P
.I isdnrate -CZ 19430
.br
Show rates and the best provider for this (service-)number.
.P
.I isdnrate -CD3
.br
Stop the running isdnrate daemon.
.SH SIGNALS
A isdnrate daemon restarts (and therefore rereads its configuration) on
getting a SIGHUP signal.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rate-files(5) ", " isdnlog(8) ", " isdn.conf(5)
.SH BUGS
Definitly yes. Sometimes more then one daemon can be started, sometimes the
socket is not removed, when the daemon terminates. if this happens
('socket in use'), do a
.I rm /tmp/isdnrate
and try again.
.SH AUTHORS
Andreas Kool <akool@isdn4linux.de> started this program.
Leopold Toetsch <lt@toetsch.at> continued the work and brought this man
page to you. Michael Reinelt
<reinelt@eunet.at> did the calculation engine and various tools for it.
