.\" $Id: vboxrc.man,v 1.2 2000/09/15 09:10:10 paul Exp $
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2000/09/15 09:10:10 $
.TH vboxrc 5 "@MANDATE@" "ISDN 4 Linux @I4LVERSION@" "Linux System Administration"
.PD 0
.SH NAME
vboxrc \- user config file for vbox

.SH Description
Every user can save settings in ~/.vboxrc.

Everything after "#" is ignored, as are empty lines. All arguments
must be separated by whitespace (spaces, tabs). Arguments may not contain
whitespace.

These keywords are allowed:

.RS
.TP
.B USERNAME

.TP
.B PASSWORD
Username and password for vboxd login. These settings are used by vbox
and vboxctrl. If they are missing, you have to enter them at runtime.

.TP
.B VOLUME
Default volume for vbox. 

.TP
.B C_BACKGROUND
Background color.

.TP
.B C_STATUSBAR
Color for normal text in the status bar.

.TP
.B C_STATUSBAR_HL
Color for highlighted text in the status bar.

.TP
.B C_POWERLED_ON
Color for powerled (on).

.TP
.B C_POWERLED_OFF
Color for powerled (off).

.TP
.B C_STATUSLED_ON
Color for statusled (on).

.TP
.B C_STATUSLED_OFF
Color for statusled (off).

.TP
.B C_LIST
Color for list of messages.

.TP
.B C_LIST_SELECTED
Color for selected entry in the list of messages.

.TP
.B C_INFOTEXT
Color for info texts in the message list.
.RE

All color settings have the format TEXTCOLOR:BACKGROUNDCOLOR. You may not
use whitespace.

.TP
These colors are available for TEXTCOLOR:
.nf
BLACK RED GREEN BROWN BLUE MAGENTA CYAN GRAY
DARKGREY LIGHTRED LIGHTGREEN YELLOW LIGHTBLUE
LIGHTMAGENTA LIGHTCYAN WHITE
.fi

.TP
These colors are available for BACKGROUNDCOLOR:
BLACK RED GREEN BROWN BLUE MAGENTA CYAN GREY

.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.vboxrc
this configuration file
.TP
.B /usr/doc/isdnutils/examples/vboxrc
an example

.SH SEE ALSO
.B vbox(1)

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Andreas Jellinghaus <aj@dungeon.inka.de>,
for Debian GNU/Linux and isdn4linux.
