.\" $Id: vboxd.conf.man,v 1.2 2000/09/15 09:10:10 paul Exp $
.\" CHECKIN $Date: 2000/09/15 09:10:10 $
.TH vboxd.conf 5 "@MANDATE@" "ISDN 4 Linux @I4LVERSION@" "Linux System Administration"
.PD 0
.SH NAME
vboxd.conf \- config file for vboxd (the daemon)

.SH Description
This file is used to configure who may access which voice box folders.

Everything after "#" is ignored, as are empty lines. All arguments
must be separated by whitespace (spaces, tabs). Arguments may not contain
whitespace.

.TP 4
.B Login lines
The login lines set who may connect to the vbox daemon. Hosts that are
not in this list are not allowed to connect.

.B Format : L:HOSTPATTERN:ACCESS

.RS
.TP 4
.B HOSTPATTERN
UN*X pattern of a hostname or ip address.

.TP
.B ACCESS
"Y" means access is granted, "N" means access is denied.
.RE

.TP
.B Access lines
The access lines set the password for each user and what rights he or
she has.

.nf
.B Format : A:HOSTPATTERN:MODE:NAME:PASSWORD:SPOOLDIR:INCOMINGDIR
.fi

.RS
.TP 4
.B HOSTPATTERN
UN*X pattern of a hostname or ip address.

.TP
.B MODE
Name to use with LOGIN.

.TP
.B PASSWORD
Password for LOGIN.

.TP
.B SPOOLDIR
Spool directory for this user. You must give the whole path.

.TP
.B INCOMINGDIR
Directory with messages for this user. You may give a full path or a
path relative to SPOOLDIR. 
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.B @I4LCONFDIR@/vboxd.conf
this configuration file

.TP
.B /usr/doc/isdnutils/examples/vboxd.conf
an example

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Andreas Jellinghaus <aj@dungeon.inka.de>,
for Debian GNU/Linux and isdn4linux.
