.TH SADF 1 "APRIL 2005" Linux "Linux User's Manual" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
sadf \- Display data collected by sar in multiple formats.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sadf [ -d | -H | -p | -x ] [ -t ] [ -V ] [ -P {
.I cpu
.B | ALL } ] [ -s [
.I hh:mm:ss
.B ] ] [ -e [
.I hh:mm:ss
.B ] ] [ --
.I sar_options...
.B ] [
.I interval
.B [
.I count
.B ] ] [
.I datafile
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B sadf
command is used for displaying the contents of data files created by the
.B sar(1)
command. But unlike sar,
.B sadf
can write its data in many different formats.

The
.B sadf
command extracts and writes to standard output records saved in the
.I datafile
file. This file must have been created by a version of
.B sar
which is compatible with that of
.B sadf.
If
.I datafile
is omitted,
.B sadf
uses the standard system activity file, the
.IR /var/log/sa/sa dd
file, where the dd parameter indicates the current day.

The
.I interval
and
.I count
parameters are used to tell
.B sadf
to select
.I count
records at
.I interval
second intervals. If the
.I count
parameter is not set, then all the records saved in the data file will be
displayed.

All the activity flags of
.B sar
may be entered on the command line to indicate which
activities are to be reported. Before specifying them, put a pair of
hyphens (--) on the command line in order not to confuse the flags
with those of
.B sadf.
Not specifying any flags selects only CPU activity.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP -d
Print the contents of the data file in a format that can easily
be ingested by a relational database system. The output consists
of fields separated by a semicolon. Each record contains
the hostname of the host where the file was created, the interval value
(or -1 if not applicable), the timestamp in a form easily acceptable by
most databases, and additional semicolon separated data fields as specified
by
.I sar_options
command line options.
Note that the timestamp is displayed in UTC (Coordinated Universal Time)
unless option -t is used. In this latter case, the timestamp is displayed
in local time.
.IP "-e [ hh:mm:ss ]"
Set the ending time of the report. The default ending time is
18:00:00. Hours must be given in 24-hour format.
Note that if you also use
.B -p
option, ending time will have to be given in UTC (Coordinated Universal Time).
.IP -H
Display the header of the data file.
.IP "-P { cpu | ALL }"
Tell
.B sadf
that processor dependent statistics are to be reported only for the
specified processor or processors. Specifying the
.B ALL
keyword reports statistics for each individual processor, and globally for
all processors. Note that processor 0 is the first processor.
.IP -p
Print the contents of the data file in a format that can
easily be handled by pattern processing commands like awk.
The output consists of fields separated by a tab. Each record contains the
hostname of the host where the file was created, the interval value
(or -1 if not applicable), the timestamp (UTC value - Coordinated Universal
Time) in seconds from the epoch, the device name (or - if not applicable),
the field name and its value.
.IP "-s [ hh:mm:ss ]"
Set the starting time of the data, causing the
.B sadf
command to extract records time-tagged at, or following, the time
specified. The default starting time is 08:00.
Hours must be given in 24-hour format.
Note that if you also use
.B -p
option, starting time will have to be given in UTC (Coordinated Universal Time).
.IP -t
When this option is used together with options -d or -x, the timestamp
is displayed in local time instead of UTC (Coordinated Universal Time).
This option is ignored when option -p is used.
.IP -V
Print version number and usage then exit.
.IP -x
Print the contents of the data file in XML format. Every activity and the whole
file contents will be displayed.
Timestamps are displayed in UTC (Coordinated Universal Time)
unless option -t is used, in which case they are displayed
in local time. The corresponding
DTD (Document Type Definition) is included in the sysstat source package.
It is also available at
.I http://perso.wanadoo.fr/sebastien.godard/sysstat.dtd

.SH EXAMPLES
.B sadf -d /var/log/sa/sa21 -- -r -n DEV
.RS
Extract memory, swap space and network statistics from system activity
file 'sa21', and display them in a format that can be ingested by a
database.
.RE

.B sadf -p -P 1
.RS
Extract CPU statistics for processor 1 (the second processor) from current
daily data file, and display them in a format that can easily be handled
by a pattern processing command.
.RE

.SH FILES
.IR /var/log/sa/sa dd
.RS
Indicate the daily data file, where the
.B dd
parameter is a number representing the day of the month.

.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> wanadoo.fr)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sar (1),
.BR sadc (8),
.BR sa1 (8),
.BR sa2 (8),
.BR isag (1),
.BR mpstat (1),
.BR iostat (1),
.BR vmstat (8)

.I http://perso.wanadoo.fr/sebastien.godard/
